It is a Universe of light and darkness. At least that's what we compare the time between light and light.
There are a few of the worlds in this Universe that are affected by this. Some of those know about other, some don't.
Darkness is the time between two lights. It cannot be compared to a day cycle as it takes much longer than that. Although, it can be compared to a season.
The time when nothing happens in set World. Life as we know stops. Your friends, your family, you and even plants simply freeze in time.
People didn't know that this phenomenom even existed as the generations used to live and die between each cycle. Nonetheless, after the darkness comes the light and everything resumes.
You feel no different, even your thoughts continue from before. However, you simply know it happened. You know that the time have passed. A lot of time.
It is not a constant cycle. People started noticing and documenting this behaviour.
The gap between each cycle grew smaller, it got to the point where, every generation got the chance to experience it.

During the many generations of our World people we managed to learn some interesting facts about this behaviour.
For example, we know that all the life, that we know and that lives in our World gathers their life force or energy from this light.
There is no one source of light but as long as it is we live, laught, work and talk. The moment it disappears, we stop. We do not die or have any bad consequences we simply pause.
It does not matter if we are somewhere deep underground or somewhere high up in the sky. The light and the absence of it goes through everything.

Our world is huge. No one knows the exact limits, boarders or edges of our home world. But Some cycles ago we found an anomaly place on our World. Many science people were involved.
Then after one cycle a new alien to us living being was standing in the place where there was nothing before. It took some time and some mind blowing discoveries to find out that there was more than one world.
Later there were 4 anomaly places with different world connections discovered. And a apparatus created to initiate and stabilize the procedure of going throught the gates.
All of the 5 worlds had a treaty of peace. We trade we share our inventions and so on. Our Scientist together with other world people managed to gather a gigantic amount if knowledge about the universe we live on.
